

Many of Hawthorne's shorter tales exhibit weirdness, either of
atmosphere or of incident, to a remarkable degree. "Edward Randolph's
Portrait," in "Legends of the Province House," has its diabolic
moments. "The Minister's Black Veil" (founded on an actual incident)
and "The Ambitious Guest" imply much more than they state, whilst
"Ethan Brand"--a fragment of a longer work never completed--rises to
genuine heights of cosmic fear with its vignette of the wild hill
country and the blazing, desolate lime-kilns, and its delineation
of the Byronic "unpardonable sinner," whose troubled life ends with
a peal of fearful laughter in the night as he seeks rest amidst the
flames of the furnace. Some of Hawthorne's notes tell of weird tales he
would have written had he lived longer--an especially vivid plot being
that concerning a baffling stranger who appeared now and then in public
assemblies, and who was at last followed and found to come and go from
a very ancient grave.

But foremost as a finished, artistic unit among all our author's
weird material is the famous and exquisitely wrought novel, "The
House of the Seven Gables," in which the relentless working out of
an ancestral curse is developed with astonishing power against the
sinister background of a very ancient house--one of those peaked
Gothic affairs which formed the first regular building-up of our New
England coast towns, but which gave way after the seventeenth century
to the more familiar gambrel-roofed or classic Georgian types now known
as "Colonial." Of these old gabled Gothic houses scarcely a dozen are
to be seen today in their original condition throughout the United
States, but one well-known to Hawthorne still stands in Turner Street,
Salem, and is pointed out with doubtful authority as the scene and
inspiration of the romance. Such an edifice, with its spectral peaks,
its clustered chimneys, its overhanging second story, its grotesque
corner-brackets, and its diamond-paned lattice windows, is indeed an
object well-calculated to evoke sombre reflections; typifying as it
does the dark Puritan age of concealed horror and witch-whispers which
preceded the beauty, rationality, and spaciousness of the eighteenth
century. Hawthorne saw many in his youth, and knew the black tales
connected with some of them. He heard, too, many rumours of a curse
upon his own line as the result of his great-grandfather's severity as
a witchcraft judge in 1692.

From this setting came the immortal tale--New England's greatest
contribution to weird literature--and we can feel in an instant the
authenticity of the atmosphere presented to us. Stealthy horror
and disease lurk within the weather-blackened, moss-crusted, and
elm-shadowed walls of the archaic dwelling so vividly displayed,
and we grasp the brooding malignity of the place when we read that
its builder--old Colonel Pyncheon--snatched the land with peculiar
ruthlessness from its original settler, Matthew Maule, whom he
condemned to the gallows as a wizard in the year of the panic. Maule
died cursing old Pyncheon--"God will give him blood to drink"--and
the waters of the old well on the seized land turned bitter. Maule's
carpenter son consented to build the great gabled house for his
father's triumphant enemy, but the old Colonel died strangely on the
day of its dedication. Then followed generations of odd vicissitudes,
with queer whispers about the dark powers of the Maules, and peculiar
and sometimes terrible ends befalling the Pyncheons.

The overshadowing malevolence of the ancient home--almost as alive
as Poe's House of Usher, tho in subtler way--pervades the tale as a
recurrent motif pervades an operatic tragedy; and when the main story
is reached, we behold the modern Pyncheons in a pitiable state of
decay. Poor old Hepzibah, the eccentric reduced gentlewoman; childlike,
unfortunate Clifford, just released from undeserved imprisonment;
sly and treacherous Judge Pyncheon, who is the old Colonel all
over again--all these figures are tremendous symbols, and are well
matched by the stunted vegetation and anaemic fowls in the garden.
It was almost a pity to supply a fairly happy ending, with a union
of sprightly Phoebe, cousin and last scion of the Pyncheons, to the
prepossessing young man who turns out to be the last of Maules. This
union, presumably, ends the curse. Hawthorne avoids all violence of
diction or movement, and keeps his implications of terror well in
the background; but occasional glimpses amply serve to sustain the
mood and redeem the work from pure allegorical aridity. Incidents like
the bewitching of Alice Pyncheon in the early eighteenth century,
and the spectral music of her harpsichord which precedes a death
in the family--the latter a variant of an immemorial type of Aryan
myth--link the action directly with the supernatural; whilst the dread
nocturnal vigil of old Judge Pyncheon in the ancient parlour, with his
frightfully ticking watch, is stark horror of the most poignant and
genuine sort. The way in which the Judge's death is first adumbrated
before the fact is suspected either by the reader or by any of the
characters, is a stroke of genius which Poe could not have surpassed.
Later the strange cat watches intently outside that same window in the
night and on the next day, for--something. It is clearly the psychopomp
of primeval myth, fitted and adapted with infinite deftness to its
latter-day setting.

But Hawthorne left no well-dined literary posterity. His mood and
attitude belonged to the age which closed with him, and it is the
spirit of Poe--who so clearly and realistically understood the
natural basis of the horror--appeal and the correct mechanics of its
achievements--which survived and blossomed. Among the earliest of Poe's
disciples may be reckoned the brilliant young Irishman Fitz-James
O'Brien (1828-1862) who became naturalized as an American and perished
honourably in the Civil War. It is he who gave us "What Was It?" the
first well-shaped short story of a tangible but invisible being, and
the prototype of de Maupassant's "Horla;" he also who created the
inimitable "Diamond Lens," in which a young microscopist falls in love
with a maiden of an infinitesimal world which he has discovered in a
drop of water. O'Brien's early death undoubtedly deprived us of some
masterful tales of strangeness and terror, though his genius was not,
properly speaking, of the same titan quality which characterized Poe
and Hawthorne.





I promise to write an article about that Great High God among fantasy
authors, M. P. Shiel; much of the best science-fantasy, from a literary
standpoint, has been written by him. Anyway, when you read "The Purple
Cloud," "Dr. Krasinski's Secret," "This Above All," or any of the other
two score novels penned by him, such little matters as scientific
accuracy never enter your head (which does not by any means imply that
his science is not correct to the N'th degree). A hypnotist with words
is M. P. Shiel.

And he is--and has been--almost as much a Heaven-born genius as some of
the characters he weaves through the pages of his novels. He is fluent
with a half-dozen languages, is literally a master of all sciences,
writes in a blinding, complicated style no one else on Earth could
imitate--much less create!--and has written as many books as Haggard,
Burroughs, and a few others combined. At 12 he wrote a novel; at 13,
printed a newspaper; and at 15, wrote novels for serialization in large
public papers.


Lester Anderson, fantastiac extra-ordinary of Hayward, California, is
fortunate enough to count himself a very good friend and correspondent
of the lexicographical (hah!) Clark Ashton Smith.

Speaking of whom: Smith and H. P. Lovecraft are great friends, by
correspondence. Lovecraft refers to C.A.S. as "My good old friend and
correspondent, Klarkash-Ton, Hierophant of Atlantis and High-Priest of
Tsathoggua."


Again Bram Stoker! His latest to chance my way is "The Jewel of Seven
Stars." With every reading of this English weird-tale master, I am
seized in profound melancholia, despairing the fact that he did not
live another twenty years, to pen another score novels. Not content
with being a master of superb plot (involved plot too!) Stoker went to
exquisite pains to instill that ultra-weird and chilling sense of the
unreal so characteristic of his work.

In "Jewel of the Seven Stars," he spins a yarn of Egyptian queens who
wield a strange and powerful influence over the lives of present-day
people; of mummified cats walking again and striking in the dark,
vampire-like; of hypnotic spells and influences; of developments
so utterly mystifying and gripping, the reader cannot put the book
down after once opening it. And Bram Stoker's novels are not the
abbreviated two-hundred page book so much in evidence today; they are
voluminous; though not, I might mention, as "infinite" as "Anthony
Adverse."


Here is something--not strictly fantasy, but certainly of interest to
all who make fantasy a hobby--which I have deemed worthy of passing
on: about twenty years ago there lived in Honolulu, in the much-sung
Hawaiian Islands, a man, W. D. Westervelt by name, who spent all his
spare time in the collecting of legends and myths about volcanoes.
Perhaps the best result of his efforts was a little book called
"Legends of Hawaiian Volcanoes," small but crammed to the fly-leaves
with fascinating historical, scientific, and mythological data. Others
had the titles of "Legends of Ghosts and Ghost-Gods," "Legends of Old
Honolulu," "Legends of Maui," etc. No, not true fantasy, but they
read like first-rate weird stories. Incidentally, this is a field for
stories practically untouched; tales built around Hawaiian and other
old native legends have been scarce.


Once, in those dear dead days when I first awakened to the call of
fantasy, I was seized with some strange outbreak of energy; and
typed two copies of Edmond Hamilton's first tale, "The Monster God
of Mamurth." The copies are still on had. Not faultless typing, but
readable. If anyone has not read this great little story by Hamilton,
I'll gladly send a copy to the first two fans writing me.



The Slanting Shadow


Mr. Abner Follansbee, investigator for the Society for Psychic
Research, stopped his car to peer out into the Wisconsin woods. To his
companion he said, "This is apparently the place, Fred. There's a sign
off to one side. Pretty well shot. 'Kroll's Inn'. Let's see that young
lady's letter again."

Fred Tenny took a letter from his inner coat pocket and thrust it
toward Follansbee, who opened it and regarded the scrawled writing
dubiously.

"Probably just another wild goose chase," he said presently. "Looks
to me more like a matter for the police. The girl's guardian, Uriah
Kroll, disappeared over a year ago--and since then his room has been
very strange. That's all it amounts to. I suppose the young lady thinks
she's got a ghost on her hands."

The younger man smiled. "Something about a shadow, isn't there?"

"Yes. 'There's a queer shadow on the bed in his room when the moon
shines,' she writes. 'I can't understand it. It shouldn't be there.'
That's all."

"Very lucid," commented Tenny laconically.

The inn itself was a quiet little house of stone, hugging the ground in
the middle of a clearing not very far from the heavily wooded roadside.
A flagstone walk led up to a low stone porch, where the key to the
front door lay under the mat, just where Miss Harriet Sears had said it
would be in her letter to Follansbee.

As he bent to unlock the door, Follansbee said, "At least we can thank
goodness we're alone. Miss Sears isn't likely to come bursting in on us
at all hours of the night--she vowed she'd never set foot inside the
building until we'd settled that shadow business."

He threw the door open on a short hallway leading directly into a
low, raftered sitting-room, into which Follansbee immediately strode,
followed by his companion. The room was comfortably and well furnished
with antique pieces. The chairs were curiously carved and obviously
hand-made. Follansbee, however, wasted no time in the sitting-room, but
led the way into another, smaller room, and around into a large bedroom
in the southeast corner of the building.

This was the room which had been occupied by Uriah Kroll, prior to his
disappearance, as described in Miss Sears' letter. It was a large,
oddly furnished room, with a bed against the south wall, and a single
chair next to it, the north wall of the room next the door being
occupied by what appeared to be a work-bench. Follansbee, having looked
cursorily at the bed, went over to the bench and bent above it.

Tenny came over and stood at his side.

"What do you make of it?" Follansbee asked.

"Queer outfit," Tenny replied. "Looks as if he might have been blowing
glass, doesn't it?"

Follansbee bent and took up a book. "Well, look at this," he said in
surprise. "Arbatel's Treatise on Magic."

"Yes," supplemented Tenny excitedly, "and see here--he's got a trident,
and incense, and oils--why, he dabbled in magic!"

"No doubt of it," assented Follansbee gravely.

He put the book down and examined the instruments on the bench. He
chuckled oddly to himself, held up a magical diagram made on a sheet of
stiff paper, and smiled at it with Tenny. Then he turned away, looked
once more about the room, and said, "If you brought the lunch kit,
we'll eat. The sun'll go down in about three-quarters of an hour, and
the moon'll be up shortly after. We might as well be ready."

"What's the procedure?"

"We sleep here--nice, comfortable double bed, as far as I can see,"
replied Follansbee.

Lunch eaten, the two investigators returned to the bedroom where they
were to sleep. The moon had already risen, so long had they sat in
the kitchen, but it was not yet throwing its light through the single
window to the south. Follansbee and Tenny sat talking for the better
part of an hour.

It was the older man who first noticed that the moonlight had reached
the counterpane of the bed. "There we are," he said. "Now for the
shadow."

They sat for a few minutes in silence, while the light of the moon
crept in a parallelogram across the counterpane. But there was no
shadow save the shadow of a tree, a few branches of which dipped into
the moonlight.

Presently Follansbee rose and went in some irritation over to the bed
and stood looking down at the patch of moonlight. "Batty as can be," he
murmured, obviously referring to Miss Harriet Sears.

Tenny, who had drifted to his side, said suddenly, "what a funny angle
those branches have!"

Follansbee bent abruptly closer. "As if they were coming from above,"
he murmured. "But look here--they're not just branches--they're like a
forest of little trees, and what odd spines for leaves!"

Suddenly he whirled to the window. "Oh, now I see," he said harshly.
"There's no tree of any kind beyond the window!"

"Nor anything to make that shadow," added Tenny.

They stood for a few moments scrutinizing the glass and looking through
it into the clearing outside. The line of trees to the south was too
far for any shadow to reach the house; the trees were shadowed in an
uneven line across the clearing below. Then they returned to the bed
and stood looking down at the counterpane.

"Well, there has to be some explanation," said Tenny.

Follansbee nodded. "But I don't get it," he said. Then he stopped
abruptly, staring down at the parallelogram of moonlight widening eyes.

Tenny followed the older man's startled gaze.

There, in the moonlight, was a tiny, moving shadow--a shadow only
slightly over two inches in height, moving with incredible rapidity,
yet achieving no distance in the parallelogram of moonlight--the figure
of a man!

Back and forth it ran within a space so small that it might have been
covered by the extended palm of a hand. The two men stared in growing
amazement. Then Follansbee turned to the window again. But there was
nothing there--nothing on the glass, nothing against the glass outside,
nothing flying against the moonlight in the sky.

He turned back to the bed. The shadow was still there. He bent, peering
intently. The incredible shadow was running wildly, this way and that,
its tiny arms outflung, its spindle-legs moving rapidly upon the
counterpane, a thing alive, yet without substance.

"Good God," muttered Tenny at last. "It's a man--it's a live man. But
where is he?"

"I don't know," Follansbee jerked out.

He stood for a few moments more, his fascination for the unbelievable
shadow holding him there; then he swung away and went over to the
work-bench, where he lit a lamp and began to thumb swiftly through a
group of the old books lying carelessly abandoned there.

Tenny followed, asking, "Can I help?"

The older man nodded. "Check up on all references to magical designs in
these books," he said. "I've got an idea. I don't know what's in it,
but it's worth trying."

It was Follansbee who found what they sought. "Here it is," he said
suddenly. "Magical designs on glass. It's been marked up by someone,
too--Kroll, most likely. Parts of it are illegible, but the sense of it
can be made out. Third paragraph down in the second column."

Tenny bent to read the printed lines on the yellow page:

"Certain mages have brought into being worlds of glass--invisible in
glass, the objects of such consistency that though they cannot be seen
in the light of the sun, they are shadowed by the moon.... The glass is
of no ordinary kind, but must be specially made. And the creatures to
be placed there may be drawn from the mind or from life."

"You see?" cut in Follansbee, drawing the book away. "That's what
he was doing--but something happened. He tried it on himself, and
vanished."

Tenny turned astonished eyes on the glass in the window.

Follansbee abruptly left the work-bench and, going over to the window,
raised it. "It's the upper pane we want," he murmured. "It must be
broken--there's no other way. But be careful that all the pieces fall
into the room."

As he spoke, the older man pulled down the upper half of the window.
Then he drew the curtain down outside the glass, and into the room
again below.

"All right," he said. "Break it, Fred."

Tenny rapped sharply against the glass of the upper pane. It did not
break. He struck it harder with the trident from the work-bench. Still
it did not break. Then he smashed into it with all his strength. The
glass broke into incredibly small fragments that slithered down the
drawn curtain to the floor.

Follansbee let the curtain snap up. Looking down, he and Tenny
exclaimed simultaneously. The window lay in silver fragments on the
carpet in the moonlight that stretched to the bed--but beyond the
fragments ran a tiny dark shadow, of substance now.

"Good God!" breathed Follansbee hoarsely. "The dimensions didn't
change!"

"It's Kroll," said Tenny. He swooped to seize hold of the figure on the
carpet, but at that moment it disappeared under the bed. He sank to his
knees. "Kroll!" he shouted. "Come out, Kroll!"

There was a vague scuttering noise beneath the bed.

Follansbee came to his knees at Tenny's side and peered into the
moonlit dusk beneath the bed. "Kroll" he whispered softly. Turning
abruptly, he said to Tenny, "Get over on the other side. He's skirting
the wall toward the door."

Tenny moved to obey.

Then suddenly there came a quick rustle, a dark shadow launched itself
from the wall upon the two-inch figure that crept toward the door,
there was a shrill squeal, a tiny human scream, and abrupt, unnatural
silence.

"A rat," whispered Follansbee shakily. "My God!"

He got up unsteadily and looked down at the bed. The moonlight lay
unbroken on the counterpane.


